# AOC 2024

Notes on solutions and potential improvements

## General

1. Generation script run results through black first!
2. Pre-submission hook

## Autoload

curl --cookie "session=$$(cat $(SESSION))" "https://adventofcode.com/$(YEAR)/day/$(DAY)/input" -o $@

... note, could have data in private repo. Not sure what state mine are in.

## day 1

Can we put the info in lists via a comprehension?

From reddit (not the most efficient but gives tips)

def part1(left, right):
    total = sum(abs(num_left - num_right) for num_left, num_right in zip(sorted(left), sorted(right)))
    return total


def part2(left, right):
    right_counter = Counter(right)
    total = sum(left_num * right_counter.get(left_num, 0) for left_num in left)
    return total

utility split and nums function would be useful    

## day 2

Took simple approach of copying array and trying all arrays with an element missing. More efficient (but logically more complex) to walk through and try combinations.

## day 3

Part b: hybrid of regexp and simple search. Could do by combining into a single regexp, or perhaps writing my own parser (or using a more generic parsing engine)

## day 5

Really hacky! We ought to define a page class with the "set" following function and a __lt__, then we can do tests easily and call a standard sort function rather than the bubble I did.

In fact given we have a complete set of rules in both cases, we can work out __lt__ just by counting the rules for each page. (Or is this not true - apparently there are loops.)

## day 6

Useful insight from threads - you only need to put a block in places the guard might visit (the found set from part 1). Still takes about 25s, so further optimisation possible, I think. 

One obvious thing is only to cache points you turn at.

Thought you could maintain a cache of which point on the original path we would now run into, but the difficulty is that we might have disrupted that with a second hit on the new obstacle.

## day 7

Did broadly the obvious thing and it runs fast enough. Might be nice to do the concatenation operator directly rather than via strings (we'd need a num-digits function)

## day 9

Runs in about a second. Should optimise gap search so we start from the previous one of that size. Should also remove the empty ones rather than just setting size to zero.

## day 10

Method fine, code could do with tidying up a bit.

## day 12

Two simpler ways of doing it: when matching edges, you just need to see whether the L or U version of the same edge is in the set or not.

Or, you can observe that the number of edges is the same as the number of corners and count corners as you go rather than store all edges.

## day 14

Run to 10000 and minimise distance from centre of grid. Works, but could be more robust?

## day 15

Seems to be reasonably instant. I think you could save time if certain blocks ever get stuck and never move again? 

## day 16

Need to put full tests in for part 1. Track history and best paths for part 2