# Everybody Codes 2024

Notes on solutions and potential improvements

## General

(some of these apply to AOC too)

1. Naming convention inconsistent between part_N and testN. We use a/b for AOC. 
2. More generic dispatcher when parts have same code.
3. Some sort of way of tagging which puzzle has which feature (generic with AOC)
4. Get a logging library incorporated.
5. Sort out vec2d/3d (cacheable). Now done, but need to go back and edit prior code. Note: __hash__ to generate a hash value.
6. grid2d input is very inconsistent, particularly on whether we pass an input generator. Think about doing it more generically.
7. More generic arithmetic for vec2d/3d.
8. git commit hooks (black, run tests)

## Day 01

Obvious implementation. No issues.

## Day 07

input_generator issue as noted above.

part_2 and part_3 have distinct track parsers, but that's OK. 'S' goes at end.

Can logic for part_3 parser be tidier?

Constructed a recursive generator which is useful for future reference.

## Day 13

We run everything backwards, then we can do part 3 more efficiently. 

Think it's reasonably good but worth a further review.

## Day 14

Another breadth-first search case.

Move some of the functionality into Vec3d. A move * N function would be useful.

## Day 15

Solution just about works inside memory limits and takes 10 minutes. Worth trying a memory profiler to see what can be improved.

It would be good to have more generic maze-solving or breadth/first-solving code (day 13 has a similar method). Trying to work out why we have an it method.

Set of herbs found could be packed as binary or similar to save memory.

We optimise fairly crudely to reduce states where we have a set of vertical elements, or things round a lake.

Worth considering is breaking the maze into horizontal segments and having a transition level being links between these entrances and the new herbs picked up. Will want to factor out the groups of five (both end points only) and the case where we have a dead end in the wall.

The search between pairs of herbs would be more efficient done as a two way flood fill. 

## Day 16

People on reddit have n^2 solutions - trying to see if mine is more efficient or not at that level. May not actually hit the cache that many times?

## Day 17

Minimum spanning tree. I implemented Prim's algorithm not particularly well. Kruskal might be better. Spatial unity could/should be exploited. However, with the test data we finish in well under a second for all input.

## Day 18

Another maze-solver. Part 1 largely copied from day 13. Part 3 we optimise to consider only junction points as starters, but would be better if we do a first pass to find points between junctions and run over that. About 45s currently

I think there's a similar AOC one somewhere.

## Day 19

Done by combining permutations. First round (where we copied the grid unnecessarily every time we did a permutation) very slow.

I think implementing grid as an array rather than a hash for cases where we're not extending it would be a big improvement.

Got 63rd place here, quite surprisingly.

## Day 20

Part 2 looks pretty hard. Saved the three examples as test2,3,4

test2 is a minimum length set. 

test3, 4 and our input have the property that there's a ++/++ block near S, so any route will be able to loop round there and pick up height if needed (clear that we must go through it, or that wlog we will). This may be a helpful optimisation.

What I think we want to do is something like: for each segment construct a set of (time,height delta) to each (point,dir). These, to the checkpoints, will give us options for the whole - we're wanting minimum sum with height delta>=0. 

We can cull as follows: if we are (t1,h1) and we have a (t0,h0) in the set, cull if h1-h0 <= t1-t0 but keep if h1-h0 =2 and t1-t0 = 2 as we might need a 2 mod 4 height increase.

Finding a good route is not too bad, but proving optimality is harder. I think what we have to do at each stage is maintain a dirty list, and then mark things that may need reconsidering on the next pass.

When we have these lists, we can relatively easily compute a set of possible (t,h) pairs for each (checkpoint,dir) pair. The first one >=0 should do it. If we have none, then we need to do +4,+4 changes from the ++/++ block, but we'll need to do it on the last two sets because of the parity loop option.

Or possibly run whole thing with just direct state?